Check here all new features of Java 17 : https://openjdk.org/projects/jdk/17/



JDK 17 new features

    1. JEP 409: Sealed Classes
        Summary
            Enhance the Java programming language with sealed classes and interfaces. Sealed classes and interfaces
            restrict which other classes or interfaces may extend or implement them.

        Motivation
            Java supports enum classes to model the situation where a given class has only a fixed number of
            instances. In the following code, an enum class lists a fixed set of planets. They are the only values
            of the class, therefore you can switch over them exhaustively — without having to write a default clause:

                enum Planet { MERCURY, VENUS, EARTH }
                Planet p = ...
                switch (p) {
                  case MERCURY: ...
                  case VENUS: ...
                  case EARTH: ...
                }
            Using enum classes to model fixed sets of values is often helpful, but sometimes we want to model a fixed
            set of kinds of values. We can do this by using a class hierarchy not as a mechanism for code inheritance
            and reuse but, rather, as a way to list kinds of values. Building on our planetary example, we might
            model the kinds of values in the astronomical domain as follows:
                interface Celestial { ... }
                final class Planet implements Celestial { ... }
                final class Star   implements Celestial { ... }
                final class Comet  implements Celestial { ... }
            This hierarchy does not, however, reflect the important domain knowledge that there are only three kinds
            of celestial objects in our model. In these situations, restricting the set of subclasses or
            subinterfaces can streamline the modeling.

            In a graphics library, the author of a class Shape may intend that only particular classes can extend
            Shape, since much of the library's work involves handling each kind of shape in the appropriate way.
            The author is interested in the clarity of code that handles known subclasses of Shape, and not
            interested in writing code to defend against unknown subclasses of Shape. Allowing arbitrary classes
            to extend Shape, and thus inherit its code for reuse, is not a goal in this case. Unfortunately,
            Java assumes that code reuse is always a goal: If Shape can be extended at all, then it can be extended
            by any number of classes. It would be helpful to relax this assumption so that an author can declare a
            class hierarchy that is not open for extension by arbitrary classes. Code reuse would still be possible
            within such a closed class hierarchy, but not beyond.

            The language provides limited tools in this area: Either make a class final, so it has zero subclasses,
            or make the class or its constructor package-private, so it can only have subclasses in the same package.

            In summary, it should be possible for a superclass to be widely accessible (since it represents an
            important abstraction for users) but not widely extensible (since its subclasses should be restricted
            to those known to the author). The author of such a superclass should be able to express that it is
            co-developed with a given set of subclasses, both to document intent for the reader and to allow
            enforcement by the Java compiler. At the same time, the superclass should not unduly constrain its
            subclasses by, e.g., forcing them to be final or preventing them from defining their own state.

        Description
            A sealed class or interface can be extended or implemented only by those classes and interfaces permitted to
            do so.
            A class is sealed by applying the sealed modifier to its declaration. Then, after any extends and implements
            clauses, the permits clause specifies the classes that are permitted to extend the sealed class. For example,
            the following declaration of Shape specifies three permitted subclasses:
                package com.example.geometry;
                public abstract sealed class Shape
                    permits Circle, Rectangle, Square { ... }
            The classes specified by permits must be located near the superclass: either in the same module (if the
            superclass is in a named module) or in the same package (if the superclass is in the unnamed module)

            A sealed class imposes three constraints on its permitted subclasses:
                -The sealed class and its permitted subclasses must belong to the same module, and, if declared in an
                unnamed module, to the same package.
                -Every permitted subclass must directly extend the sealed class.
                -Every permitted subclass must use a modifier to describe how it propagates the sealing initiated by
                its superclass:
                    -A permitted subclass may be declared final to prevent its part of the class hierarchy from being
                    extended further. (Record classes are implicitly declared final.)
                    -A permitted subclass may be declared sealed to allow its part of the hierarchy to be extended
                    further than envisaged by its sealed superclass, but in a restricted fashion.
                    -A permitted subclass may be declared non-sealed so that its part of the hierarchy reverts to
                    being open for extension by unknown subclasses. A sealed class cannot prevent its permitted
                    subclasses from doing this. (The modifier non-sealed is the first hyphenated keyword proposed
                    for Java.)

            Sealed interfaces
                As for classes, an interface can be sealed by applying the sealed modifier to the interface. After any
                extends clause to specify superinterfaces, the implementing classes and subinterfaces are specified
                with a permits clause




TODO Create git repo